dev_notes.md, before:

Divide y venceras.

The best approach when you apply “Clean Architecture” is to use common sense.

There are only two hard things in Computer Science: cache invalidation and naming things.
— Phil Karlton

Ask a programmer to review 10 lines of code, he'll find 10 issues. Ask him to do 500 lines and he'll say it looks good.

El código es como un chiste, si lo explicas es malo.

Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand (Escribes una vez, lees src cuatro veces.)
— Martin Follen.

Complexity is like a bug light for smart people. We can't resist it, even though we know it's bad for us.

La comunidad te devuelve con creces los que les das.

Ser un buen boyscout, recoge la mierda de otros.

A goal is a dream with a deadline.
— Napoleon Hill

Some people, when confronted with a problem, think “I know, I’ll use regular expressions.” Now they have two problems
— Jamie Zawinski, on comp.lang.emacs [*]

`python -m this`
— Guido van Rossum

Las empresas piensan: "!Ah, sois ágiles! Eso quiere decir que lo haceis rápido". Y no, no es eso. Ágil quiere decir que lo hacemos bien"
— Pepe Doval

![linux observability tools](imgs/IMG_20151119_091259.jpg)


Links
-----

 * http://coding.abel.nu/2012/06/programmer-time-translation-table
 * http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html
 * http://aosabook.org/en/index.html

Langs
-----

 * http://hyperpolyglot.org/
 * http://githut.info
 * http://www.tiobe.com/index.php/content/paperinfo/tpci/index.html
 * http://cwe.mitre.org/top25/

Licenses
----------

 * http://choosealicense.com/
 * https://spdx.org/licenses/

Benchmarks
----------

* http://www.techempower.com/benchmarks/
* http://benchmarksgame.alioth.debian.org/

ASCII
-----

* http://asciiflow.com/
* http://www.figlet.org
* https://ivanceras.github.io/elm-examples/elm-bot-lines/
* http://aa-project.sourceforge.net/aalib/
* telnet towel.blinkenlights.nl

Other
-----

 * http://asoftmurmur.com/
 * https://bitf.ly/
 * http://stackshare.io/

Commit message:

Tho kind of languages...
https://twitter.com/CodeWisdom/status/785496269288538112?s=09

dev_notes.md, after:

Divide y venceras.

The best approach when you apply “Clean Architecture” is to use common sense.

There are only two hard things in Computer Science: cache invalidation and naming things.
— Phil Karlton

Ask a programmer to review 10 lines of code, he'll find 10 issues. Ask him to do 500 lines and he'll say it looks good.

El código es como un chiste, si lo explicas es malo.

Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand (Escribes una vez, lees src cuatro veces.)
— Martin Follen.

There are only two kinds of languages, the ones people complain about, and the ones nobody uses
— Bjarne Stroustrup

Complexity is like a bug light for smart people. We can't resist it, even though we know it's bad for us.

La comunidad te devuelve con creces los que les das.

Ser un buen boyscout, recoge la mierda de otros.

A goal is a dream with a deadline.
— Napoleon Hill

Some people, when confronted with a problem, think “I know, I’ll use regular expressions.” Now they have two problems
— Jamie Zawinski, on comp.lang.emacs [*]

`python -m this`
— Guido van Rossum

Las empresas piensan: "!Ah, sois ágiles! Eso quiere decir que lo haceis rápido". Y no, no es eso. Ágil quiere decir que lo hacemos bien"
— Pepe Doval

![linux observability tools](imgs/IMG_20151119_091259.jpg)


Links
-----

 * http://coding.abel.nu/2012/06/programmer-time-translation-table
 * http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/smart-questions.html
 * http://aosabook.org/en/index.html

Langs
-----

 * http://hyperpolyglot.org/
 * http://githut.info
 * http://www.tiobe.com/index.php/content/paperinfo/tpci/index.html
 * http://cwe.mitre.org/top25/

Licenses
----------

 * http://choosealicense.com/
 * https://spdx.org/licenses/

Benchmarks
----------

* http://www.techempower.com/benchmarks/
* http://benchmarksgame.alioth.debian.org/

ASCII
-----

* http://asciiflow.com/
* http://www.figlet.org
* https://ivanceras.github.io/elm-examples/elm-bot-lines/
* http://aa-project.sourceforge.net/aalib/
* telnet towel.blinkenlights.nl

Other
-----

 * http://asoftmurmur.com/
 * https://bitf.ly/
 * http://stackshare.io/
